h1. Sugar high!

Inspired by the 'zucker' project.

h2. Install

<code>gem install sugar-high</code>

h2. Usage

See specs for example use

h2. Update June 22, 2011

file_mutate is now backwards compatible again in order nt to break gems such as cream et. al. that depend on auto inclusion of all File extensions into
File object

h2. Sugar packs

* alias
* arguments
* array
* blank
* class_ext
* dsl
* enumerable
* file
* file_mutate (backwards compatible)
* file_mutation
* includes
* kind_of
* math
* metaclass
* methods
* module
* not
* numeric
* path
* properties
* reg_exp

h3. Alias

* multi_alias name, options_hash : creates multiple aliases using patterns

h3. Arguments

* args (Used in generator CLI testing)
* last_option *args : Returns last argument if hash or empty hash otherwise
* ...

h3. Array

* pick_one! - pick one random item
* pink (n) - pick n random item
* to_symbols
* to_symbols_uniq
* to_strings
* flat_uniq
* file_join
* ...

h3. Blank

* blank?

h3. Class Extension

* autoload_modules (by @stanislaw)

Makes it easy to autoload multiple modules by standard folder-to-module mapping convention

* is_class?
* is_module?
* class_exists?
* module_exists?
* try_class
* try_module
* try_module_only
* find_first_class(*class_names)
* find_first_module(*module_names)

Note: This pack has recently been extracted into its own gem called *sweet_loader*

h3. DSL

* with(instance, &block) (by @stanislaw)

Useful as a building block for DSLs!

<pre>
with(Hash.new) do
  merge!(:a => 1)
  merge!(:b => 2)
end.should == {:a => 1, :b => 2}
</pre>

h3. Enumerable

* only_kinds_of?(*modules)
* only_labels?
* select_kinds_of(*modules)
* select_kinds_of!
* select_labels
* select_labels!
* select_symbols
* select_symbols!
* select_uniq_symbols!
* select_strings
* select_strings!
* select_only(type)
* select_only!(type)

h3. File

* self.blank? and blank? : Is file empty?
* self.overwrite : overwrite file with new content (mode = 'w')
* self.append : append to existing file with content or create new (mode = 'w+')

h3. File Mutate
Adds all File mutation modules to the File class

h3. File Mutation

Various File Mutation modules that can be added to any module or class for some nice benefits. Useful for generators fx.

Mutation modules within SugarHigh::FileMutate

* AppendContent
* Delete
* InsertContent
* OverwriteContent
* RemoveContent
* ReplaceContent

To add all mutate modules to the File class, simply:

<pre>File.mutate_ext :all</pre>

Otherwise, simply specify which ones:

<pre>File.mutate_ext :append_content, overwrite_content</pre>

h3. Hash

* hash_revert : Reverse keys and values
* try_keys : return value of first key that is in Hash

h3. Includes

* includes : Includes modules listed as symbols

h3. Kind of

* any_kind_of? *const_list
* kind_of_label? : Symbol or String ?

h3. Metaclass

* metaclass : Get the metaclass, can be used to dynamically add class singleton methods!

h3. Methods

* get_methods *types : Get collection of methods, fx :private and :protected (or :all)

h3. Module

* modules *names
* nested_modules *names

Create empty namespaces

h3. Not

* not

Adds the _#not_ method to Object, so you can say fx: <code>if x.not.empty?</code>

h3. Numeric

module _NumericCheckExt_

* is_numeric?(arg) - alias numeric?
* check_numeric!(arg) - raises error if argument is not numeric

module NumberDslExt added to all numeric classes (Float and Numeric)
* thousand
* hundred

<pre>3.thousand + 2.hundred 
  => 3200
</pre>

h3. Path
* String#path - extends String instance with PathString

module PathString
* to_file
* to_dir
* to_symlink

<pre>
"a/b/c".to_dir
"a/b/c/d.rb".to_file
</pre>

File type existance
* exists?
* file?
* dir?
* symlink?

Navigate dirs
* up
* down
* post_up
* post_down

<pre>
"a/b/c/d".up(2).should == "a/b"
"a/b/".post_up(2).should == "a/b/../../"  
"a/b/../".post_down(1).should == "a/b/"  
</pre>

h3. Properties

<pre>
class CruiseShip
  extend Properties

  property :direction
  property :speed, is(0..300)
end

ship = CruiseShip.new
ship.add_direction_listener(lambda {|x| puts "Oy... someone changed the direction to #{x}"})    
ship.speed = 200
ship.speed = 301 # outside valid range!
</pre>

h3. RegExp

String, RegExp
* to_regexp

<pre>"a, b /c".to_regexp # escapes it for reg exp!</pre>

MatchData
* offset_after
* offset_before

h3. RSpec 2 Matchers

* have_aliases(method, *alias_methods)  

<pre>
  require 'sugar-high/rspec'

  have_aliases :original, :alias_1, :alias2
</pre>

h3. String

Class methods
* random_letters
* letters

Instance methods
* alpha_numeric
* insert_before_last

If not already defined
* trim
* concat

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Kristian Mandrup. See LICENSE for details.
